---
title:      Testing                    # Title
author:     Robert Caddy               # Author Name
date:       2021-07-23 17:00:00 -0400  # Date
categories: [Cholla, Testing]     # Catagories, no more than 2
tags:       [Catch2, Google Test, Framework]                     # Tags, any number
pin:        false                      # Should this post be pinned?
toc:        true                       # Table of Contents?
math:       false                      # Does this post contain math?
#image:      /assets/img/#            # Header image path
---

# Workshop
I finished the *Rensselaer Summer Program: Advanced Cyberinfrastructure Training
for Modeling Physical Systems* summer school last week. My group's project got
second place and my work with performance analysis and optimization was cited as
a major reason for the high placement. We built a random walk code that
simulated a virus and antibodies walking over a cell surface looking for
receptors. My job was to convert the python version to C++. My very rushed
conversion netted a speedup of 25x on a test with 20,000 walkers and with
200,000 walkers the python version wouldn't run at all and the C++ version
worked fine.


# Testing Frameworks & Continuous Integration
I spent some time this week working on finding a testing framework for Cholla
along with a service for continuous integration (CI). Both GoogleTest and Catch2
seem like good candidates for testing frameworks. GoogleTest is more complicated
to use but includes death tests (i.e. test if the program crashes) whereas
Catch2 is far simplier with more logical syntax but doesn't include death tests.
Since Cholla doesn't have widespread error handling and generally just crashes
on errors I'm leaning towards GoogleTest. I found that Gitlab CI, CircleCI, and
Jenkins all support NVIDIA GPU's for testing, I'm going to look into GitHub
Actions as well since we already use GitHub.